---
title:  Housing  
author: MCR Committee  
date:   27 Aug 2015  
...

# An Overview of College Housing

Information about specific College rooms can be found in the rooms
database. However, students are often more concerned by the overall
nature of a house. Below we provide a totally biased personal summary…

The bulk of College housing can be split into 4 sets. There's about 35
rooms in Barnwell hostel, 13 rooms at Park Lodge, 15 rooms in two houses
on Tenison Road (33/43), and another 29 rooms in two houses on Hills
Road. There are also some rooms at Cutter Ferry house and 8 Norwich
Street.

The most recent official MCR review of College housing was
[TODO](uploads/accommodation_reviews/accommodation_review_2011.pdf)
in 2011.

## Barnwell

Barnwell is the biggest graduate housing complex in College, with around
35 rooms in total. It is very undergraduate dorm-like in style, with a
single large kitchen (4 ovens, 16 hobs) shared by everyone. In general
rooms are a reasonable size, and typically showers are shared between
6-7 people. Overall the complex is not particularly pretty, but it
probably provides the best social introduction to the College,
especially if you cook regularly. There have been major internet issues
in Barnwell recently, though College is working to resolve this.
Barnwell is \~10 minutes walk from College.

## Park Lodge

Park Lodge is the only Graduate housing on the College site, and is
often popular with one-year students looking for the "Cambridge"
experience. Given the proximity to hall, it's a good call if you'd
rather not cook for yourself. There's quite a range of room
size/quality, a single kitchen with 2 ovens (8 hobs), and two showers.
The building could perhaps use a paint job in places, but is
consistently a very popular place to live.

## The Tenison houses

33 and 43 have 7/8 rooms each, and are the most "house-like" of graduate
properties in Emma. With a couple of exceptions, most rooms are
reasonably sized and in good condition. 33 has one large kitchen, while
43 has two smaller ones. Each house has one shower. The highlight of
these houses is location, ten minutes walk from the train station and
right next to Mill Road; one of Cambridge's highlights (popular
restaurants, cheap international supermarkets, and a couple of the best
pubs nearby to boot). It's about 15 minutes walk to College.

## Hills Road

Hills road is rather far from the city centre, near to the hospital; so
if you're living here chances are you're probably a medic. The two
houses are both in good condition, and rooms are spacious compared to
housing nearer College. Living so far out can unfortunately be a little
isolating.

## Cutter Ferry House

Cutter Ferry House, at the back of the college’s boathouse, has 8 rooms,
all for graduate students. Upstairs is a well equipped kitchen, and
there are laundry facilities in the house itself. It’s very convenient
if you choose to row, and it’s only a 15 minute walk from college (5
minut cycle) — plus, it’s close to Barnwell.

## Norwich Street

Meanwhile 8 Norwich Street has another 4 rooms. Unfortunately the
present author knows very little about this property.
