---
title:  Fixing things!
author: MCR Committee
date:   27 Aug 2015
...

# Fixing things!

If there is a problem with your accommodation, the first port of call is
likely to be either maintenance, housekeeping or the computing office…

## Maintenance

If something in a college property breaks and needs replacing/fixing,
then you should contact maintenance. The easiest way to do this is by
the shiny and wonderful new College maintenance log. Go to
[www.emma.cam.ac.uk](http://www.emma.cam.ac.uk), log into Raven, and
click on the spanner in the top right hand corner.

The college maintenance department are committed to keeping their houses
in good working order, and will normally respond promptly to any
problems reported properly. It is not recommended to simply leave the
matter with the bedder. If, after a reasonable period of time, you feel
your issue has not been properly resolved; then contact the buildings
manager via <maintenance@emma.cam.ac.uk>.

## Housekeeping

If you think that furniture in your room
(bedsprings/mattresses/chairs/curtains etc.) needs replacing, contact
the College housekeeper via <housekeeper@emma.cam.ac.uk>. You should
also contact the housekeeper if you would like blackout lining fitted on
your curtains.

If you have concerns about your bedder, then you should initially raise
your concerns politely with the bedder directly. If this doesn't succeed
however, then contact the housekeeper. The cleaning agreement between
the MCR and college can be found
[TODO](uploads/other_important_documents/cleaning_policy.pdf)!

## Computing Office {#computing}

If you have problems with internet connection, contact the computing
officer on <co@emma.cam.ac.uk>

## Last Resorts {#last_resorts}

If your problem is not satisfactorily resolved, then the last port of
call is the bursar (<bursar@emma.cam.ac.uk>); who holds overall
responsibility for College housing.

If you are having trouble resolving any issue, we highly recommend you
contact your graduate tutor; who can sometimes convince College to
change its mind in your favour (the current graduate tutors, Jeremy
Caddick and John Maclennan, are both excellent…).

