---
title:  Why emma?  
author: MCR Committee  
date:   28 Aug 2015  
---

# Why Choose Emma?

Emmanuel College (known as ‘Emma’) is widely considered the friendliest
college in the university. MCR members are a varied bunch; some join
straight after their undergrad study, others have come back after a
break from university. Members represent a wide range of subjects, too,
with every kind of study: from MBAs to medics and from historians to
mathmos.

## A Place to Call Home

Most grads live in [college
housing](index.php?page=accommodation_reviews) for at least a year of
their degree. The main site for grad rooms is Barnwell Hostel, located
about 10 minutes’ walk from Emma. There are also other grad rooms on
Tenison Road, in houses near to Addenbrooke’s Hospital for the medics
and vets and in Park Lodge, on the college site itself.

While grad housing provides all you would expect from student
accommodation, with cooking facilities enough to make an undergrad
jealous and their own laundry machines, most grads find it just as easy
to use college services. Meals in hall are always a good place to meet
up with other students.

The MCR is not just a short-hand term for the student body; it’s a room
to call our own in college, too. The MCR room in the Queen’s Building
has a TV with skybox, a DVD player and HDMI connections for your own
computers. There’s a pool table (very popular after formals!), a
foosball table and plenty of board games. During term time, the JCR-run
bar is a good place to relax.

## Being Sociable

Social activities are a key feature of College life and Emma is no
exception. The MCR Committee has no less than three [Social
Secretaries](index.php?page=about_committee) who, along with their
Committee colleagues, organise events throughout the terms and during
the summer holiday. We have [Formal
Dinners](index.php?page=social_events_calendar) three or four times a
term. These are grand, three-course events in the Hall, where students
and guests dress up and get waiter service. At each dinner we invite
guests from other colleges to join us – and we get to attend Formal
Dinners with them in return. This is a great way to see other colleges
and as everyone wants to swap with Emma, we’re never short of colleges
to dine at.

It’s not all eating and drinking! The MCR arranges an array of
activities throughout the year, from movie nights to football in the MCR
room; and from zoo outings to walks around the local countryside.
Students with families are well catered for, too, with family outings
and picnics during the holidays.

## Top of the Class

Emma MCR is not just a social hub. It’s a great place for academic
networking and development. Emma consistently ranks among the top three
Colleges in the annual Tomkins Table and although that’s
undergraduate-focused, the grads do not shy from making their own
contribution. Each term we host three Grad Talks, which provide
opportunities for Grads and Fellows to come together and hear about the
work of our MPhil and PhD students. Our Formal Dinners often provide a
chance for students to mingle with the Fellows, too.

The range of research undertaken by our grad students, pushing
boundaries in topics as varied as selection in South American
butterflies, medieval child kings and literary translations, means that
there’s always someone around to give you a fresh perspective on your
own research!

## Finally… The Ducks

The college’s well-tended grounds are a popular place for students and
picnickers alike to relax, especially in the summer months. The Paddock,
one of the few college spaces on which people can walk freely, is home
to many ducks and moorhens, as well as people. Watching the ducks going
crazy over their daily feed (or hanging round for scraps outside the
Hall window) are sights to be seen!
